about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

I am pursuing a PhD in [Computer Science(s)](http://cs.wisc.edu) at University of Wisconsin---Madison. 
I am generously advised by [Aws Albarghouthi](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~aws/) and [Loris D'Antoni](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/) of the 
[Programming Languages group.](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/areas/pl/) 

Our research seeks to apply *program  verification* techniques to machine learning algorithms; 
e.g., neural networks. 
We aim to help practitioners build safe, reliable, and *ethical* machine learning systems.

I studied math and physics as an undergrad. This background can be 
useful, though I've had a lot of catching up to do.

I hope that this blog evolves into something useful and interesting.

<!---
This is the base Jekyll theme. You can find out more info about customizing your Jekyll theme, as well as basic Jekyll usage documentation at [jekyllrb.com](http://jekyllrb.com/)

You can find the source code for the Jekyll new theme at:
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

You can find the source code for Jekyll at
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)
-->

Commit message:

Added photo to about; changed blog name.

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

I am pursuing a PhD in [Computer Science(s)](http://cs.wisc.edu) at University of Wisconsin---Madison. 
I am generously advised by [Aws Albarghouthi](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~aws/) and [Loris D'Antoni](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/) of the 
[Programming Languages group.](http://research.cs.wisc.edu/areas/pl/) 

In our research we apply *program  verification* techniques to machine learning algorithms; 
e.g., neural networks. 
We aim to help practitioners build safe, reliable, and *ethical* machine learning systems.

I studied math and physics as an undergrad. This background has 
its benefits, though I've had a lot of catching up to do in CS.

I hope that this blog evolves into something useful and interesting.

![profile photo]({{ site.url }}/assets/profile_photo.JPG)

<!---
This is the base Jekyll theme. You can find out more info about customizing your Jekyll theme, as well as basic Jekyll usage documentation at [jekyllrb.com](http://jekyllrb.com/)

You can find the source code for the Jekyll new theme at:
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima)

You can find the source code for Jekyll at
{% include icon-github.html username="jekyll" %} /
[jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll)
-->
