---
layout: post
title:  The big three-O 
date:   2019-11-01 22:00:00 -0500
category: personal 
tags: [personal, opinion, books, birthday] 
---

Well, it's finally arrived. 

The big Three-O.

The score-and-ten.

My twenties passed in a blur.
I can hardly claim them as my own &mdash; I feel as though my memories belong to other lives.
Some points of reference that I have difficulty grasping:

* Ten years ago I was a Mormon missionary in Tasmania.
* Five years ago I lived in Santa Monica and worked at RAND Corporation.  
* Three years ago I rode my bike across Europe and started grad school in Madison.

It was an eventful decade.
So much has changed in my life. 
I'd like to think it's in a positive direction, on balance.

The experiences that shaped me most during this decade:

* My Mormon mission. A shy, nerdy guy was forced to have very uncomfortable conversations about Jesus with strangers. He remains shy and nerdy, but he _does_ know how to speak with confidence in uncomfortable situations. (They aren't usually about Jesus anymore, though.)
* My undergraduate education. I leaped from Mechanical Engineering to Physics, and then from Physics to Mathematics. I embarked on my grand tour of the STEM fields. It was very stimulating, and I even picked up useful skills along the way. My internships&mdash;at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories&mdash;were probably more valuable than my coursework. 
* Leaving Mormonism. A lesson I can never forget: _the extent to which someone can be wrong, while fully convinced they're right_. Seven years later I haven't recovered from it. I'm not sure I ever will.
* Working at RAND Corporation. I entered an idealist; I left somewhat jaded. The idea of "speaking truth to power" sounds good in the abstract. The problem is that policy analysis usually goes ignored by policy makers&mdash;meanwhile, the rent-seeking smells pretty bad. If someone wants to make a positive impact on the world, then they're probably better off engaging in business and entrepreneurship, rather than policy or politics. (I believe that the entrepreneur who employs a dozen people in meaningful work is more valuable than most politicians.)
* Biking across Europe. When I wasn't riding I spent most of my time reading books, walking around beautiful old cities, and thinking. I probably resembled a homeless person. By god, it was wonderful. I might do something similar when I graduate.
* Being president of SACM. I was president of Madison's student chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery. It was a fascinating and extremely valuable experience. I conceived of an organizational structure; recruited people to fill it; and saw it run. [I think of organizations as information-processing entities]({% post_url 2019-11-03-amateur-management %}). A good manager builds and maintains a machine, whose parts are humans. This requires some understanding of human nature&mdash;humans can be a difficult medium to work with.
* Taking up triathlons as a hobby. I joined UW-Madison's club triathlon team during the 2018-2019 school year. It was a lot of fun! (Probably too much fun&mdash;I'm not participating this year, since I want to focus on research.) I found the practice of swimming, biking, and running intrinsically rewarding; the variety and intensity of the exercise got me into better shape than at any other point in my life. I never had the experience of high school sports, so the idea of working out with a team was pretty new to me.  

Some of the books that most influenced me during my third decade:

* _Atlas Shrugged (Ayn Rand)_. I read this when I was 21 years-old, a recently-returned missionary. It shattered my religious faith. In my opinion, Rand made a persuasive case against religion in general (and Christianity in particular). I was always an individualist; Rand took my individualism to its logical conclusion and suggested that religion was an abdication of personal responsibility. I managed to wrap my faith in bandages for another couple of years... but the damage was done.
* _Antifragile (Nassim Taleb)_. I've listed only one of his books, but I'm really referring to his entire _Incerto_ collection. Taleb probably influenced my thinking more than any other writer. He is a philosopher and a statistician. He calls on all of us to be more intellectually humble. He was my gateway to stoic philosophy (and Nietzsche).
* _Brave New World (Aldous Huxley)_. Most Americans read this book in high school, but I didn't read it until I was 26 years-old. Unlike most teenagers, I immediately understood its value. It validated what I already knew: that I strive for _meaning_, something that goes deeper than mere comfort. I want struggle, not soma. I read this shortly after living in Santa Monica&mdash;it articulated, in literature form, my contempt for the decadence of Los Angeles. 
* _12 Rules for Life (Jordan Peterson)_. I don't buy every idea Jordan Peterson sells. But he gets some very important things right: the human condition; human nature. The image of chaos and order, with mankind standing astride their boundary, persists in my mind&mdash;an extremely useful conceptualization. This book should not be dismissed lightly.
* _Thus Spake Zarathustra (Friedrich Nietzsche)_. I would almost refer to this book as scripture. It articulates (in a literary fashion) the spiritual crisis of western civilization ("God is dead"), and reexamines the human condition under a new light. A very Darwinian one.

Well, that's enough for one birthday. 

\\( \blacksquare\\)

