---
layout: post
title:  "On bicycles"
date:   2021-04-05 00:00:00 -0500
category: personal 
tags: [bicycle, exercise, finance] 
---

Obvious benefits
* Health. 
    - If you trade some of your car-time for bike-time, then you will obviously be less sedentary.
    - Physical exercise has so many knock-on benefits (mental, emotional, social, etc.). 
      I won't spend any more time enumerating them.
* Finances. 
    - I sold my car a few years ago. I found that a bike sufficed for
  getting around Madison---even in winter.
    - This has reduced my expenses considerably. I no longer have to think about
      (i) fuel, (ii) car insurance, (iii) maintenance, or (iv) car payments.
      Easily thousands of dollars per year.
    - I spend maybe $50 per year on bike maintenance.
      Inner tubes, lubricant, and miscellaneous parts.

My bicycle constrains me in useful ways
* I always try to live within biking distance of work. 
  I want my commute to be short and invigorating---not long and draining. 
* I run fewer superfluous errands.
* My choices tend to be more environmentally friendly.
* The 5-7-5 structure of a haiku constrains the poet;
  a LASSO penalty constrains the regressor;
  and a bicycle constrains me.

Experiencing your surroundings
* Cars put a glass screen between you and the world.
* A bicycle immerses you in the sights, sounds, and smells of your environment.
* A bike exposes you to the elements---a good thing in moderate doses. 


Zen and the art of bicycle maintenance
* Learning some simple bicycle maintenance can be very enriching.
* A bicycle is simple enough that you can easily learn how to maintain it.
  You still get a sense of accomplishment from fixing it up, though.
* In _Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance_, the author talks about 
  the "Dionysian" and "Appollonian" perspectives on motorcycle maintenance
  (among other things). The same insights apply to bicycle maintenance.
* We can switch between Dionysian and Appollonian perspectives while we're
  riding and fixing our bike, respectively.


Some interesting examples of bike-centric cultures
* Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Berlin
* These places are economically strong and culturally interesting.
* They are extremely accessible by bicycle. The people who live in these places ride their bikes all the time, for all sorts of reasons.
* Their quality of life is visible in their faces -- I don't remember seeing stressed out or angry people on the bike paths of Amsterdam. (They were all quite fit, too.)


\\( \blacksquare\\)  

