---
layout: post
title:  "When You Go to College, Study Something Rigorous"
date:   2020-09-19 00:00:00 -0500
category: personal
tags: [college, education, philosophy] 
---

Let me borrow an analogy used by Nassim Taleb in his book _Skin in the Game_.
It comes from Greek mythology. 
The giant Antaeus: strength comes from being grounded in reality.

When I say _rigorous discipline_, I mean something that puts you in a feedback loop with reality.

A rigorous discipline should have a notion of _fitness_. If you produce unfit work, then you fail; if you produce fit work, then you succeed.
Crucially, this notion of fitness must correspond to an "external reality": a body of facts that stubbornly persist no matter how humans beg, plead, or try to ignore them.
Unfit work must be _selected against_ by this external reality.

This isn't a stereotypical piss-take on the humanities by a STEM guy.
The humanities have an important place in civilization.
Furthermore, it _is_ possible to hold oneself to rigorous standards in the humanities.
However, we can't necessarily rely on a university curriculum to enforce that rigor.

The notion of "quality" examined in _Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance_ has everything to do with this.
The main character of that novel spends his adult life grappling with the concept.
Unfortunately he spirals around it uselessly, getting caught up in abstractions.
If he had substituted the word "fitness" for "quality" and grounded himself in a more Darwinian perspective, then his life probably would have been happier and his contributions would have been more valuable. 

Distrust of academic philosophy
* Richard Feynman anecdote: "Is a _brick_ an essential object?"
[http://www.e-reading-lib.com/chapter.php/71262/18/surely-youre-joking-mr-feynman-adventures-of-a-curious-character.html]((Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!))

If you can't produce valuable work in a rigorous field, then why should anybody trust your judgment in the more nebulous, unknowable domains? 

\\( \blacksquare\\)  


